\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c  `gfs.texi'.
@c
@c  This file is the texinfo manual page for GNU fs.
@c
@c  Copyright (C) 2008  Efstathios Chatzikyriakidis (contact@efxa.org)
@c
@c  This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
@c  (at your option) any later version.
@c
@c  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
@c  GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c  along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

@c %**start of header
@setfilename gfs.info
@include     sets.texi
@settitle    @value{prm-sht-name} manual @value{manual-version}
@c %**end of header

@copying
This file documents the @value{prm-sht-name} program 
(version @value{prm-version}, @value{last-update}).

Copyright @copyright{} 2008  @value{author-name} (@value{author-mail})

@quotation
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@end quotation
@end copying

@ifinfo
@dircategory Utilities
@direntry
* @value{prm-cmd-name}: (@value{prm-cmd-name}).    @value{prm-lng-name}.
@end direntry
@end ifinfo

@ifhtml
@documentdescription
@value{prm-sht-name}, @value{prm-lng-name}, @value{prm-sht-name} manual page
@end documentdescription
@end ifhtml

@titlepage
@title @value{prm-sht-name} manual @value{manual-version}
@subtitle for @command{@value{prm-cmd-name}}, version @value{prm-version}.
@subtitle last update: @value{last-update}.
@author @value{author-name} (@email{@value{author-mail}}).

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@ifnotplaintext
@shortcontents
@contents
@end ifnotplaintext

@ifnottex
@node Top, Instructions, (dir), (dir)
@top @value{prm-lng-name} manual @value{manual-version}

@insertcopying

@menu
* Instructions::            How to read this manual.
* Overview::                Preliminary information.
* Invoking::                How to run the command.
* Environment Variables::   How to use environment variables.
* Diagnostics::             How to use the exit values.
* Problems::                Reporting bugs.
* Concept Index::           Index of concepts.
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@node Instructions, Overview, Top, Top
@unnumbered How to read this manual
@cindex How to read

@indent
To read this manual, begin at the beginning, reading from left to
right and top to bottom, until you get to the end. Then stop. You
may pause for a beer anywhere in the middle as well, if you wish.

(Please note, however, that The King strongly advises against heavy
use of prescription pharmaceuticals, based on his extensive personal
and professional experience.)

@node Overview, Invoking, Instructions, Top
@unnumbered Overview

@indent
The GNU fs searches the named input `FILEs', standard input (if no files are
named), or environment variable `GFS_INPUT' for lines containing a match to
the given `PATTERN'. By default, GNU fs prints the matching lines. 

@value{prm-sht-name} is @strong{protected} by the GNU General Public License.

@value{prm-sht-name} was written by @value{author-name}.

@node Invoking, Environment Variables, Overview, Top
@unnumbered Invoking
@cindex Command options

The format for running the @command{@value{prm-cmd-name}} program is:

@samp{@value{prm-cmd-name} [@var{OPTIONS}] -e @var{PATTERN} [@var{FILE...}]}

@noindent
The @command{@value{prm-cmd-name}} program supports the following options:

@table @option
@cindex @option{--reverse-match}
@item --reverse-match
@itemx -r
Invert the sense of matching, to select non-matching lines.

@cindex @option{--max-matches}
@item --max-matches
@itemx -m
Show the max number of matches within a file.

@cindex @option{--line-number}
@item --line-number
@itemx -n
Prefix each line with a number.

@cindex @option{--ignore-case}
@item --ignore-case
@itemx -i
Ignore case distinctions.

@cindex @option{--pattern}
@item --pattern=PATTERN
@itemx -e PATTERN
Use PATTERN as the pattern.

@cindex @option{--verbose}
@item --verbose
@itemx -v
Explain what is being done.

@cindex @option{--help}
@item --help
Display a short help and exit.

@cindex @option{--usage}
@item --usage
Same as @option{--help} option.

@cindex @option{--version}
@item --version
Print version information and exit.

@cindex @option{--author}
@item --author
Print author information and exit.

@cindex @option{--copyleft}
@item --copyleft
Print the short version of GNU/GPL and exit.
@end table

@node Environment Variables, Diagnostics, Invoking, Top
@unnumbered Environment Variables
@cindex Environment shell variables
The behavior of @value{prm-cmd-name} is affected
by the following environment variables.

@table @option
@cindex @option{GFS_INPUT}
@item GFS_INPUT
Specifies the input file.
@end table

@node Diagnostics, Problems, Environment Variables, Top
@unnumbered Diagnostics
@cindex Return values
Normally, exit status is 0 if selected lines are found and
1 otherwise. But the exit status is 2 if an error occurred.

@node Problems, Concept Index, Diagnostics, Top
@unnumbered Reporting Bugs
@cindex Email reporting bugs

If you find a bug in @value{prm-sht-name}, please send electronic mail to:

@samp{@email{@value{prm-report-bugs}}}

@node Concept Index, , Problems, Top
@ifnotplaintext
@unnumbered Concept Index
@cindex Tail recursion

@printindex cp
@end ifnotplaintext

@bye
