.\"
.\"  `gfs.1'.
.\" 
.\"  This file is the short manual page for the GNU fs.
.\"
.\"  Copyright (C) 2008  Efstathios Chatzikyriakidis (stathis.chatzikyriakidis@gmail.com)
.\"
.\"  This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH GFS "1" "March 2008" "gfs 1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
gfs \- print lines matching a pattern.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfs
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] -e \fIPATTERN\fR [\fIFILE...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The GNU fs searches the named input \fIFILE\fRs, standard input (if no files
are named), or environment variable \fBGFS_INPUT\fR for lines containing a
match to the given \fIPATTERN\fR. By default, GNU fs prints the matching lines. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reverse-match\fR
Invert the sense of matching, to select non-matching lines.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-max-matches\fR
Show the max number of matches within a file.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-line-number\fR
Prefix each line with a number.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore-case\fR
Ignore case distinctions.
.TP
\fB\-e \fIPATTERN\fR\fR, \fB\-\-pattern=\fIPATTERN\fR\fR
Use \fIPATTERN\fR as the pattern.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Explain what is being done.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-\-usage\fR
Display a short help and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-author
Print author information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-copyleft
Print the short version of GNU/GPL and exit.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The behavior of \fBgfs\fR is affected by the following environment variables.
.TP
.B GFS_INPUT
Specifies the input file.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Normally, exit status is 0 if selected lines are found and
1 otherwise. But the exit status is 2 if an error occurred.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Efstathios Chatzikyriakidis.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Email bug reports to <bug-gnu-fs@gnu.org>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008  Efstathios Chatzikyriakidis (stathis.chatzikyriakidis@gmail.com)

This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms
of the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B gfs
is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the
.B info
and
.B gfs
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info gfs
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
